README.md, before:

# Build and Deploy AI Solutions with the OpenVINO™ Toolkit

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

Welcome to the **Build and Deploy AI Solutions** repository! This repository contains pre-built components and code samples designed to accelerate the development and deployment of **production-grade AI** applications across various industries, including retail, healthcare, gaming, manufacturing, and more. With the OpenVINO™ Toolkit from Intel, you can enhance the capabilities of both Intel and non-Intel hardware to meet your specific needs.

> Material and dependencies are self-contained, so you can get started building easily.

## Table of Contents

- [➡️ Repo Contents](#repo-contents)
- [📚 Additional Resources](#additional-resources)
- [🌳 How to Contribute](#contribute)
- [❓ Troubleshooting and Resources](#troubleshooting-and-resources)
- [🧑‍💻 Team](#team)
  
## Repo Contents

### [AI Reference Kits](ai_ref_kits): Production-Ready OpenVINO Code

Start development of your AI applications, including deep learning and Gen AI, on top of our code samples, conference demos, and [here](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/open-potential.html).

Each AI Reference Kit includes:
- Detailed documentation
- Pre-configured demos
- Code samples to seamlessly integrate AI functionalities into your projects.

### [Interactive Demos](demos): End-to-end Examples with Simple Setup
This directory contains interactive demos aimed at demonstrating how OpenVINO performs as an AI optimization and inference engine (cloud, client, and edge).

### [Notebooks](notebooks): Jupyter Notebooks with OpenVINO code
Explore Jupyter notebooks that demonstrate how to use OpenVINO to build and deploy AI solutions.

### [Workshops](workshops): Guided Content to Get Started Building
Explored guided content our team created and demonstrated at events.

### [Wiki](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/wiki): Step-by-step Instructions
Explore instructions on setup for the AI PC, including [performance monitoring](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/wiki/Steps-to-Setup-Performance-Monitor-for-AI-PC-(Windows)) and more.

## Additional Resources

### OpenVINO Jupyter Notebooks
Use our Jupyter notebooks to jump-start your projects and apps, which can be found in this [repository](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks).

### OpenVINO Medium Blog
To read about the latest details and updates on OpenVINO toolkit, visit our [blog](https://medium.com/openvino-toolkit).

## Contribute
If you want to contribute to OpenVINO toolkit, please read this [article](https://medium.com/openvino-toolkit/how-to-contribute-to-an-ai-open-source-project-c741f48e009e).

## Troubleshooting and Resources
- Open a [discussion topic](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/discussions)
- Create an [issue](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/issues)
- Learn more about [OpenVINO](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html)
- Explore [OpenVINO’s documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/home.html)

## Team

Hello, we're the AI Evangelist team at Intel! We’re a group of experts in AI spread across the globe, and we aim to guide you through real-world use cases for the OpenVINO toolkit. Feel free to reach out to any of us on Linkedin, or choose the one closest to you!

| | |
|---|---|
|[![ray](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/747ab608-235a-4db9-b959-c9e158b40b12)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymondlo84/)|[![adrian](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/10d11bf5-63f0-485b-93cb-581354203723)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrianboguszewski/)|
|**[Raymond Lo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymondlo84/)** <br> Global Lead <br> (Santa Clara – HQ, California) <br><br> PhD in Computer Engineering <br> 9+ Years as Entrepreneur Executive & Evangelist|**[Adrian Boguszewski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrianboguszewski/)** <br> Deep Learning Expert <br> (Gdansk, Poland) <br><br> MSc in Computer Science <br> 5+ years as DL Engineer|
|[![anisha](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/d3641d44-f6b4-410d-96ce-4c401e99b35c)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anisha-uday/)|[![zhuo](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/be02c0af-182a-4504-bac5-4780849f9e47)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuzhuo/)|
|**[Anisha Udayakumar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anisha-uday/)** <br> AI Innovation Consultant <br> (Bengaluru, India) <br><br> BTech in Civil Engineering <br> 5+ years as a Innovation Consultant|**[Zhuo Wu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuzhuo/)** <br> Professor and Research Scientist <br> (Shanghai, China) <br><br> PhD in Electronics <br> 15+ Years as a Researcher and Professor|

[//]: # (telemetry pixel)
<img referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=7003a37c-568d-40a5-9718-0d021d8589ca&project=root&file=README.md" />

Commit message:

Add Ezequiel Lanza to AI Evangelist team (#328)
* Update AI Evangelist team section - Add Ezequiel Lanza as new team member

* Restructure team section to 2-column layout with single column for last member

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Adrian Boguszewski <adrian.boguszewski@intel.com>

README.md, after:

# Build and Deploy AI Solutions with the OpenVINO™ Toolkit

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

Welcome to the **Build and Deploy AI Solutions** repository! This repository contains pre-built components and code samples designed to accelerate the development and deployment of **production-grade AI** applications across various industries, including retail, healthcare, gaming, manufacturing, and more. With the OpenVINO™ Toolkit from Intel, you can enhance the capabilities of both Intel and non-Intel hardware to meet your specific needs.

> Material and dependencies are self-contained, so you can get started building easily.

## Table of Contents

- [➡️ Repo Contents](#repo-contents)
- [📚 Additional Resources](#additional-resources)
- [🌳 How to Contribute](#contribute)
- [❓ Troubleshooting and Resources](#troubleshooting-and-resources)
- [🧑‍💻 Team](#team)
  
## Repo Contents

### [AI Reference Kits](ai_ref_kits): Production-Ready OpenVINO Code

Start development of your AI applications, including deep learning and Gen AI, on top of our code samples, conference demos, and [here](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/open-potential.html).

Each AI Reference Kit includes:
- Detailed documentation
- Pre-configured demos
- Code samples to seamlessly integrate AI functionalities into your projects.

### [Interactive Demos](demos): End-to-end Examples with Simple Setup
This directory contains interactive demos aimed at demonstrating how OpenVINO performs as an AI optimization and inference engine (cloud, client, and edge).

### [Notebooks](notebooks): Jupyter Notebooks with OpenVINO code
Explore Jupyter notebooks that demonstrate how to use OpenVINO to build and deploy AI solutions.

### [Workshops](workshops): Guided Content to Get Started Building
Explored guided content our team created and demonstrated at events.

### [Wiki](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/wiki): Step-by-step Instructions
Explore instructions on setup for the AI PC, including [performance monitoring](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/wiki/Steps-to-Setup-Performance-Monitor-for-AI-PC-(Windows)) and more.

## Additional Resources

### OpenVINO Jupyter Notebooks
Use our Jupyter notebooks to jump-start your projects and apps, which can be found in this [repository](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks).

### OpenVINO Medium Blog
To read about the latest details and updates on OpenVINO toolkit, visit our [blog](https://medium.com/openvino-toolkit).

## Contribute
If you want to contribute to OpenVINO toolkit, please read this [article](https://medium.com/openvino-toolkit/how-to-contribute-to-an-ai-open-source-project-c741f48e009e).

## Troubleshooting and Resources
- Open a [discussion topic](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/discussions)
- Create an [issue](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/issues)
- Learn more about [OpenVINO](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html)
- Explore [OpenVINO’s documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/home.html)

## Team

Hello, we're the AI Evangelist team at Intel! We’re a group of experts in AI spread across the globe, and we aim to guide you through real-world use cases for the OpenVINO toolkit. Feel free to reach out to any of us on Linkedin, or choose the one closest to you!

| | |
|---|---|
|[![ray](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/747ab608-235a-4db9-b959-c9e158b40b12)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymondlo84/)|[![adrian](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/10d11bf5-63f0-485b-93cb-581354203723)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrianboguszewski/)|
|**[Raymond Lo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymondlo84/)** <br> Global Lead <br> (Santa Clara – HQ, California) <br><br> PhD in Computer Engineering <br> 9+ Years as Entrepreneur Executive & Evangelist|**[Adrian Boguszewski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrianboguszewski/)** <br> Deep Learning Expert <br> (Gdansk, Poland) <br><br> MSc in Computer Science <br> 5+ years as DL Engineer|
|[![anisha](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/d3641d44-f6b4-410d-96ce-4c401e99b35c)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anisha-uday/)|[![zhuo](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/assets/138901786/be02c0af-182a-4504-bac5-4780849f9e47)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuzhuo/)|
|**[Anisha Udayakumar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anisha-uday/)** <br> AI Innovation Consultant <br> (Bengaluru, India) <br><br> BTech in Civil Engineering <br> 5+ years as a Innovation Consultant|**[Zhuo Wu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuzhuo/)** <br> Professor and Research Scientist <br> (Shanghai, China) <br><br> PhD in Electronics <br> 15+ Years as a Researcher and Professor|
|[![eze](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a2f239c4-ac6f-400b-8aba-18b21df84e35)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ezelanza/)||
|**[Ezequiel (Eze) Lanza](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ezelanza/)** <br> Open Source AI Evangelist <br> (Toronto, Canada) <br><br> MSc in Data Science <br> 10+ years as AI/ML Engineer and  Open Source Evangelist||

[//]: # (telemetry pixel)
<img referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=7003a37c-568d-40a5-9718-0d021d8589ca&project=root&file=README.md" />
