demos/people_counter_demo/README.md, before:

# People Counting with OpenVINO™

The demo counts people (or any other selected object) standing in front of the webcam, presenting differences in performance between various precisions and devices on the used platform. Please press keys listed in the control panel to change a precision or device.

![people_counter_seg](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1afcef3d-f1e2-454d-bdae-73ba837adadf)

Here are the steps involved in this demo:

Step 1: Install Python and prerequisites

Step 2: Set up the environment

Step 3: Run the Application

Now, let's dive into the steps starting with installing Python.

## Step 0

Star the [repository](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy) (optional, but recommended :))

## Step 1

This project requires Python 3.10-3.12 and a few libraries. If you don't have Python installed on your machine, go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, making sure to check the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

Install libraries and tools:

```shell
sudo apt install git python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you may need to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe) also._

## Step 2

1. Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run the following command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

The above will clone the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. Then, navigate into the directory using the following command:

```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/demos/people_counter_demo
```

2. Create a virtual environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to create the environment. Then, run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This will create a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

3. Activate the environment

Activate the virtual environment using the following command:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating system such as Linux or macOS
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, use `venv\Scripts\activate` command instead._

This will activate the virtual environment and change your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working within that environment.

4. Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 3

To run the application, use the following command:

```shell
python main.py --stream 0
```
And you can run it on specific video input

```shell
python main.py --stream input.mp4
```

By default, the YOLOv8n model is used. To change this, select another model from the family:

```shell
python main.py --stream 0 --model_name yolo11x
```

The demo will show alert "Intel employee is required in zone 0" if there are more than 3 people standing in front of the camera. To change this number override `--people_limit` option. 

Run the following to see all available options.

```shell
python main.py --help
```

Commit message:

Adding unique identifiers to People Counter Demo (#214)
* Added unique identifier

* Added external package information in requirements.txt

* Added a function for unique id

Created a separate function for uniquely identifying and tracking objects.

* Update main.py

* Update main.py

* Update main.py

---------

Co-authored-by: Adrian Boguszewski <adrian.boguszewski@intel.com>

demos/people_counter_demo/README.md, after:

# People Counting with OpenVINO™

The demo counts people (or any other selected object) standing in front of the webcam, presenting differences in performance between various precisions and devices on the used platform. The demo assigns a unique identifier to each person detected and can track these identifiers over time, even as individuals move in and out of the camera's view. Please press keys listed in the control panel to change a precision or device. 

![people_counter_seg](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1afcef3d-f1e2-454d-bdae-73ba837adadf)

Here are the steps involved in this demo:

Step 1: Install Python and prerequisites

Step 2: Set up the environment

Step 3: Run the Application

Now, let's dive into the steps starting with installing Python.

## Step 0

Star the [repository](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy) (optional, but recommended :))

## Step 1

This project requires Python 3.10-3.12 and a few libraries. If you don't have Python installed on your machine, go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, making sure to check the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

Install libraries and tools:

```shell
sudo apt install git python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you may need to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe) also._

## Step 2

1. Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run the following command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

The above will clone the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. Then, navigate into the directory using the following command:

```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/demos/people_counter_demo
```

2. Create a virtual environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to create the environment. Then, run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This will create a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

3. Activate the environment

Activate the virtual environment using the following command:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating system such as Linux or macOS
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, use `venv\Scripts\activate` command instead._

This will activate the virtual environment and change your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working within that environment.

4. Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 3

To run the application, use the following command:

```shell
python main.py --stream 0
```
And you can run it on specific video input

```shell
python main.py --stream input.mp4
```

By default, the YOLOv8n model is used. To change this, select another model from the family:

```shell
python main.py --stream 0 --model_name yolo11x
```

The demo will show alert "Intel employee is required in zone 0" if there are more than 3 people standing in front of the camera. To change this number override `--people_limit` option. 

Run the following to see all available options.

```shell
python main.py --help
```
