apps/README.md, before:

# Desktop applications with OpenVINO™ Toolkit

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

This directory contains interactive desktop applications using OpenVINO as an engine for the AI inference. 

## Available Apps

### 🔮 Hide Your Mess Behind

The app blurs the background behind a person on a webcam, and it's built using NodeJS and Electron technologies. It can be run from the compiled exe file or using npm.

[![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e6925e6b-0d81-41da-b9b0-c4f21f173681)](hide_your_mess_behind)

| [Hide Your Mess Behind](hide_your_mess_behind) |                                                                                            |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | image segmentation                                                                                   |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU), Edge (CPU)                                                                   |
| Owner                                | [@Roszczyk](https://github.com/Roszczyk), [@adrianboguszewski](https://github.com/adrianboguszewski) |

### 💬 Messenger AI‑Assistant

This Telegram RAG Assistant is a privacy-first desktop app that locally processes Telegram data using OpenVINO-accelerated retrieval-augmented generation and a native Qt interface. It supports streaming responses, device diagnostics, and metadata-preserving chunking for efficient, secure AI-powered insights.

[![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant/main/docs/images/chat-sample.png)](https://github.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant)

| [Messenger AI‑Assistant](https://github.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant) | |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | LLM, RAG, embedddings, reranking                   |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU)                             |
| Owner                                | [@siddhant-0707](https://github.com/siddhant-0707) |

### 👀 VisionGuard - Protect Your Eyes, Enhance Your Productivity

VisionGuard is a privacy-focused desktop app that uses your webcam and computer vision to track screen time and reduce eye strain with smart break reminders. Built for performance and efficiency, it runs locally on CPU, GPU, or NPU without needing internet access.

[![image](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard/blob/main/docs/images/app_notification_alert.png)](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard)

| [VisionGuard](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard) |                         |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | gaze estimation                            |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU), Edge (CPU)         |
| Owner                                | [@inbasperu](https://github.com/inbasperu) |

[//]: # (telemetry pixel)
<img referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=7003a37c-568d-40a5-9718-0d021d8589ca&project=apps&file=README.md" />

Commit message:

Added traffic monitoring to the apps dir

apps/README.md, after:

# Desktop applications with OpenVINO™ Toolkit

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

This directory contains interactive desktop applications using OpenVINO as an engine for the AI inference. 

## Available Apps

### 🔮 Hide Your Mess Behind

The app blurs the background behind a person on a webcam, and it's built using NodeJS and Electron technologies. It can be run from the compiled exe file or using npm.

[![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e6925e6b-0d81-41da-b9b0-c4f21f173681)](hide_your_mess_behind)

| [Hide Your Mess Behind](hide_your_mess_behind) |                                                                                            |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | image segmentation                                                                                   |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU), Edge (CPU)                                                                   |
| Owner                                | [@Roszczyk](https://github.com/Roszczyk), [@adrianboguszewski](https://github.com/adrianboguszewski) |

### 🚦 Smart Intersection Traffic Monitoring System

The Smart Intersection Traffic Monitoring System is an advanced AI-powered desktop application built with PySide6 and OpenVINO for real-time traffic monitoring, violation detection, and smart intersection analytics. The system combines computer vision, machine learning, and IoT technologies to provide comprehensive traffic management capabilities with enterprise-grade features.

[![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JatinSachdeva2004/GSoC-Traffic_Intersection_Monitoring/main/qt_app_pyside1/resources/dashboard.png)](https://github.com/JatinSachdeva2004/GSoC-Traffic_Intersection_Monitoring)

| [Traffic Monitoring System](https://github.com/JatinSachdeva2004/GSoC-Traffic_Intersection_Monitoring) | |
|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | object detection, VLM                                             |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU), Edge (CPU)                                |
| Owner                                | [@JatinSachdeva2004](https://github.com/JatinSachdeva2004)        |

### 💬 Messenger AI‑Assistant

This Telegram RAG Assistant is a privacy-first desktop app that locally processes Telegram data using OpenVINO-accelerated retrieval-augmented generation and a native Qt interface. It supports streaming responses, device diagnostics, and metadata-preserving chunking for efficient, secure AI-powered insights.

[![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant/main/docs/images/chat-sample.png)](https://github.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant)

| [Messenger AI‑Assistant](https://github.com/siddhant-0707/openvino_messenger_assistant) | |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | LLM, RAG, embedddings, reranking                   |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU)                             |
| Owner                                | [@siddhant-0707](https://github.com/siddhant-0707) |

### 👀 VisionGuard - Protect Your Eyes, Enhance Your Productivity

VisionGuard is a privacy-focused desktop app that uses your webcam and computer vision to track screen time and reduce eye strain with smart break reminders. Built for performance and efficiency, it runs locally on CPU, GPU, or NPU without needing internet access.

[![image](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard/blob/main/docs/images/app_notification_alert.png)](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard)

| [VisionGuard](https://github.com/inbasperu/VisionGuard) |                         |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Related AI concepts                  | gaze estimation                            |
| Platforms                            | Client (CPU, GPU, NPU), Edge (CPU)         |
| Owner                                | [@inbasperu](https://github.com/inbasperu) |

[//]: # (telemetry pixel)
<img referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=7003a37c-568d-40a5-9718-0d021d8589ca&project=apps&file=README.md" />
