ai_ref_kits/agentic_llm_rag/README.md, before:

<div id="top" align="center">
  <h1>AI Insight Agent with RAG</h1>
  <h4>
    <a href="https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/open-potential.html">🏠&nbsp;About&nbsp;the&nbsp;Kits&nbsp;·</a>
    <a href="">👨‍💻&nbsp;Code&nbsp;Demo&nbsp;Video</a>
  </h4>
</div>

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

The AI Insight Agent with RAG uses the OpenVINO™ toolkit to create a streamlined, voice-activated interface that consumers and retail employees can use as a smart, personalized retail assistant. The AI Insight Agent with RAG can perform math, understand instructional documents, and engage in conversations. At its core, the application harnesses models for speech recognition. It is configured to understand user prompts, engage in meaningful dialogue using agents powered by Large Language Models (LLM), understand guides and information uploaded to it with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), and provide spoken responses. It's an interactive and user-friendly personalized assistant that simulates the experience of a interactive kiosk.

This kit uses the following technology stack:
- [OpenVINO toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html) ([Docs](https://docs.openvino.ai/))
- [Meta’s Llama](https://llama.meta.com/llama3/)
- [OpenAI Whisper](https://openai.com/index/whisper/)
- [Gradio interface](https://www.gradio.app/docs/gradio/chatinterface)

For other Intel AI kits, see the [Edge AI Reference Kits repository](/).

![ai-insight-agent-with-rag](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a7ca6bc-3bde-4e97-be61-83a3709e9b73)

### What's New

New updates will be added to this contents list.

<details open><summary><b>Table of Contents</b></summary>
  
- [Get Started](#get-started)
  - [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
  - [Set Up  Your Environment](#set-up-your-environment)
  - [Get Access to Llama](#get-access-to-llama)
  - [Convert and Optimize the Model](*convert-and-optimize-the-model)
  - [Run the Application](#run-the-application)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

</details>

# Get Started

To get started with the AI Insight Agent with RAG, you install Python, set up your environment, and then you can run the application. We recommend using Ubuntu to set up and run this project.

## Install Prerequisites

This project requires Python 3.8 or higher and a few libraries. If you don't already have Python installed on your machine, go to [https://www.python.org/downloads/](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, and make  sure to select the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

To install the Python libraries and tools, run this command:

```shell
sudo apt install git gcc python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you might also have to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe)._

## Set Up Your Environment

To set up your environment, you first clone the repository, then create a virtual environment, activate the environment, and install the packages.

### Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run this command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

This command clones the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. After the directory is cloned, run the following command to go to that directory:


```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/ai_ref_kits/agentic_llm_rag
```

### Create a Virtual Environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt, and go to the directory where you want to create the environment. 

Run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This creates a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

### Activate the Environment

The command you run to activate the virtual environment you created depends on whether you have a Unix-based operating system (Linux or macOS) or a Windows operating system.

To activate  the virtual environment for a **Unix-based** operating system, run:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating systems such as Linux or macOS
```

To activate the virtual environment for a **Windows** operating system, run:

```shell
source venv\Scripts\activate   # This command is for Windows operating systems
```
This activates the virtual environment and changes your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working in that environment.

### Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## Get Access to Llama

_NOTE: If you already have access to the Llama model weights, you can proceed to the authentication step, which is mandatory to convert the Llama model._

## Convert and Optimize the Model

The application uses three separate models. Each model requires conversion and optimization for use with OpenVINO™. The following process includes a step to convert and optimize each model.

_NOTE: This reference kit requires more than 8GB of bandwidth and disk space for downloading models. Because of the large model size, when you run the kit for the first time, the conversion can take more than two hours and require more than  32GB of memory. After the first run, the subsequent runs should finish much faster._

### Step 1. Automated Speech Recognition Distil-Whisper Conversion  

The ASR model converts spoken language (audio) to written text. This functionality is crucial because it enables the chatbot to understand and process voice-based user queries.

To convert and optimize the automatic speech recognition (ASR) model performing weights quantization, run:
```shell
python convert_and_optimize_asr.py --asr_model_type distil-whisper-large-v3 --precision int8
```

### Step 2. Chat Model and Embedding Model Conversion
  
The _chat model_ is the core of the chatbot's ability to generate meaningful and context-aware responses. It processes the text input from the ASR model and produces a human-like response.  

The _embedding model_ represents text data (both user queries and potential responses or knowledge base entries) as numerical vectors. These vectors are essential for tasks such as semantic search and similarity matching.

This conversion script handles the conversion and optimization of:

- The chat model (`llama3.1-8B`) with `int4` precision.
- The embedding model (`bge-large`) with `FP32` precision.

Before you can run the script to convert the models, you must have a Hugging Face token (`--hf_token`) for authentication, which allows you to get access to gated models, such as Llama. After the models are converted, they’re saved to the model directory you specify when you run the script.

To get access to the original Llama model weights:
1. Go to the Llama model page on Hugging Face [meta-llama/Meta-Llama 3.1-8B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B).  
2. Read and accept the license agreement.  
_Requests can take up to one hour to process._

After you get access to the Llama model weights, you can convert the chat and embedding models.

To convert the chat and embedding models, run:
```shell
python convert_and_optimize_llm.py --chat_model_type llama3.1-8B --embedding_model_type bge-large --precision int4 --hf_token <your_huggingface_token> --model_dir model
```

After you run the conversion scripts, you can run `app.py` to launch the application.

## Run the Application (Gradio Interface)

To run the AI Insight Agent with RAG application, you execute the following python script. Make sure to include all of the necessary model directory arguments. 

_NOTE: This application requires more than 16GB of memory because the models are very large (especially the chatbot model). If you have a less powerful device, the application might also run slowly._

For the python script, you must include the following model directory arguments.

- `--personality path/to/personality.txt`: The path to your custom personality txt file (for example, `personality.txt`).  
This file defines the assistant's personality, including instructions, system configuration, and greeting prompts. You can create and specify your own custom personality file.

- `--asr_model path/to/asr_model`: The path to your ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition) model directory, which uses `int8` precision (for example, `model/distil-whisper-large-v3-int8`) for efficient speech recognition.

- `--chat_model path/to/chat_model`: The path to your chat model directory (for example, `model/llama3.1-8B-INT4`) that drives conversation flow and response generation.

- `--embedding_model path/to/embedding_model`: The path to your embedding model directory (for example, `model/bge-small-FP32`) for understanding and matching text inputs.

- `--public`: Include this flag to make the Gradio interface publicly accessible over the network. Without this flag, the interface will only be available on your local machine.

To run the application, execute the `app.py` script with the following command. Make sure to include all necessary model directory arguments.
```shell
python app.py \
  --personality personality.txt \
  --asr_model path/to/asr_model \
  --chat_model path/to/chat_model \
  --embedding_model path/to/embedding_model \
  --public
```

### Create a Custom TXT Personality File

You can create a personality file for your virtual AI assistant as a TXT file. Each personality can be customized based on the specific role of the assistant.

#### Components of a Personality File

A typical personality file has the following sections:

1. **Instructions**: A brief, descriptive title for the assistant.
2. **System Configuration**: Instructions that define the assistant's behavior and limitations.
3. **Greet the User Prompt**: The first interaction when the assistant introduces itself.

#### Tips for Creating the TXT File 

The TXT file _instructions_ section should provide an introduction to the assistant, the title of the assistant, and important notes for the user. It should be clear and concise, and give users context for how to interact with the assistant.

```txt
instructions: | 
  # [Assistant Name]: [Brief Role Description]

        Instructions for use:  
        1. Provide a brief step-by-step guide for how the assistant works.  
        2. Include key points the user should know before they interact with the assistant.  
        3. Mention any important disclaimers, if applicable.

        **Note: [Add a disclaimer or key note about what the assistant can and cannot do].**
```

### Use the Web Interface
After the script runs, Gradio provides a local URL (typically `http://127.0.0.1:XXXX`) that you can open in your web browser to interact with the assistant. If you configured the application to be accessible publicly, Gradio also provides a public URL.

#### Test the Application
When you test the AI Insight Agent with RAG appplication, you can test both the voice interaction and text interaction capabilities of the application.

**Note:** The Voice Interaction aspect is work-in-progress.

1. Open a web browers and go to the Gradio-provided URL.  
  _For example, `http://127.0.0.1:XXXX`._
2. Upload a a PDF file for RAG context.   
  Use the command line to select and upload a file.
3. Test voice interaction with the application.  
  - Click the microphone icon and speak your question.
  - Wait for the assistant to process your speech and respons.
4. Test text interaction with the application.  
  - Type your question in the text box.
  - To send your question to the chatbot, click **Submit** or press **Enter**.
  _The assistant responds to your question in text and audio form._


For further testing of the AI Insight Agent with RAG appplication, you can engage with the chatbot assistant by asking it questions, or giving it commands that align with the assistant's capabilities. This hands-on experience can help you to understand the assistant's interactive quality and performance.

Enjoy exploring the capabilities of your AI Insight Agent with RAG appplication!

# Additional Resources
- Learn more about [OpenVINO](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html)
- Explore [OpenVINO’s documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/home.html)

<p align="right"><a href="#top">Back to top ⬆️</a></p>

Commit message:

Update Windows venv, ASR removal (#100)
Co-authored-by: Adrian Boguszewski <adrian.boguszewski@intel.com>

ai_ref_kits/agentic_llm_rag/README.md, after:

<div id="top" align="center">
  <h1>AI Insight Agent with RAG</h1>
  <h4>
    <a href="https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/edge-5g/open-potential.html">🏠&nbsp;About&nbsp;the&nbsp;Kits&nbsp;·</a>
    <a href="">👨‍💻&nbsp;Code&nbsp;Demo&nbsp;Video</a>
  </h4>
</div>

[![Apache License Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

The AI Insight Agent with RAG uses the OpenVINO™ toolkit to create a streamlined, voice-activated interface that consumers and retail employees can use as a smart, personalized retail assistant. The AI Insight Agent with RAG can perform math, understand instructional documents, and engage in conversations. At its core, the application harnesses models for speech recognition. It is configured to understand user prompts, engage in meaningful dialogue using agents powered by Large Language Models (LLM), understand guides and information uploaded to it with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), and provide spoken responses. It's an interactive and user-friendly personalized assistant that simulates the experience of a interactive kiosk.

This kit uses the following technology stack:
- [OpenVINO toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html) ([Docs](https://docs.openvino.ai/))
- [Meta’s Llama](https://llama.meta.com/llama3/)
- [OpenAI Whisper](https://openai.com/index/whisper/)
- [Gradio interface](https://www.gradio.app/docs/gradio/chatinterface)

For other Intel AI kits, see the [Edge AI Reference Kits repository](/).

![ai-insight-agent-with-rag](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a7ca6bc-3bde-4e97-be61-83a3709e9b73)

### What's New

New updates will be added to this contents list.

<details open><summary><b>Table of Contents</b></summary>
  
- [Get Started](#get-started)
  - [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
  - [Set Up  Your Environment](#set-up-your-environment)
  - [Get Access to Llama](#get-access-to-llama)
  - [Convert and Optimize the Model](*convert-and-optimize-the-model)
  - [Run the Application](#run-the-application)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

</details>

# Get Started

To get started with the AI Insight Agent with RAG, you install Python, set up your environment, and then you can run the application. We recommend using Ubuntu to set up and run this project.

## Install Prerequisites

This project requires Python 3.8 or higher and a few libraries. If you don't already have Python installed on your machine, go to [https://www.python.org/downloads/](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, and make  sure to select the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

To install the Python libraries and tools, run this command:

```shell
sudo apt install git gcc python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you might also have to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe)._

## Set Up Your Environment

To set up your environment, you first clone the repository, then create a virtual environment, activate the environment, and install the packages.

### Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run this command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

This command clones the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. After the directory is cloned, run the following command to go to that directory:


```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/ai_ref_kits/agentic_llm_rag
```

### Create a Virtual Environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt, and go to the directory where you want to create the environment. 

Run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This creates a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

### Activate the Environment

The command you run to activate the virtual environment you created depends on whether you have a Unix-based operating system (Linux or macOS) or a Windows operating system.

To activate  the virtual environment for a **Unix-based** operating system, run:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating systems such as Linux or macOS
```

To activate the virtual environment for a **Windows** operating system, run:

```shell
venv\Scripts\activate  # This command is for Windows operating systems
```
This activates the virtual environment and changes your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working in that environment.

### Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## Get Access to Llama

_NOTE: If you already have access to the Llama model weights, you can proceed to the authentication step, which is mandatory to convert the Llama model._

## Convert and Optimize the Model

The application uses three separate models. Each model requires conversion and optimization for use with OpenVINO™. The following process includes a step to convert and optimize each model.

_NOTE: This reference kit requires more than 8GB of bandwidth and disk space for downloading models. Because of the large model size, when you run the kit for the first time, the conversion can take more than two hours and require more than  32GB of memory. After the first run, the subsequent runs should finish much faster._

## Chat Model and Embedding Model Conversion
  
The _chat model_ is the core of the chatbot's ability to generate meaningful and context-aware responses. It processes the text input from the ASR model and produces a human-like response.  

The _embedding model_ represents text data (both user queries and potential responses or knowledge base entries) as numerical vectors. These vectors are essential for tasks such as semantic search and similarity matching.

This conversion script handles the conversion and optimization of:

- The chat model (`llama3.1-8B`) with `int4` precision.
- The embedding model (`bge-large`) with `FP32` precision.

Before you can run the script to convert the models, you must have a Hugging Face token (`--hf_token`) for authentication, which allows you to get access to gated models, such as Llama. After the models are converted, they’re saved to the model directory you specify when you run the script.

To get access to the original Llama model weights:
1. Go to the Llama model page on Hugging Face [meta-llama/Meta-Llama 3.1-8B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B).  
2. Read and accept the license agreement.  
_Requests can take up to one hour to process._

After you get access to the Llama model weights, you can convert the chat and embedding models.

To convert the chat and embedding models, run:
```shell
python convert_and_optimize_llm.py --chat_model_type llama3.1-8B --embedding_model_type bge-large --precision int4 --hf_token <your_huggingface_token> --model_dir model
```

After you run the conversion scripts, you can run `app.py` to launch the application.

## Run the Application (Gradio Interface)

To run the AI Insight Agent with RAG application, you execute the following python script. Make sure to include all of the necessary model directory arguments. 

_NOTE: This application requires more than 16GB of memory because the models are very large (especially the chatbot model). If you have a less powerful device, the application might also run slowly._

For the python script, you must include the following model directory arguments.

- `--personality path/to/personality.txt`: The path to your custom personality txt file (for example, `personality.txt`).  
This file defines the assistant's personality, including instructions, system configuration, and greeting prompts. You can create and specify your own custom personality file.

- `--chat_model path/to/chat_model`: The path to your chat model directory (for example, `model/llama3.1-8B-INT4`) that drives conversation flow and response generation.

- `--rag_pdf`: The path to the document (for example, test_painting_llm_rag.pdf) that contains additional knowledge for Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).

- `--embedding_model path/to/embedding_model`: The path to your embedding model directory (for example, `model/bge-small-FP32`) for understanding and matching text inputs.

- `--public`: Include this flag to make the Gradio interface publicly accessible over the network. Without this flag, the interface will only be available on your local machine.

To run the application, execute the `app.py` script with the following command. Make sure to include all necessary model directory arguments.
```shell
python app.py \
  --personality personality.txt \
  --chat_model path/to/chat_model \
  --embedding_model path/to/embedding_model \
  --rag_pdf path/to/rag_document \  
  --public
```

### Create a Custom TXT Personality File

You can create a personality file for your virtual AI assistant as a TXT file. Each personality can be customized based on the specific role of the assistant.

#### Components of a Personality File

A typical personality file has the following sections:

1. **Instructions**: A brief, descriptive title for the assistant.
2. **System Configuration**: Instructions that define the assistant's behavior and limitations.
3. **Greet the User Prompt**: The first interaction when the assistant introduces itself.

#### Tips for Creating the TXT File 

The TXT file _instructions_ section should provide an introduction to the assistant, the title of the assistant, and important notes for the user. It should be clear and concise, and give users context for how to interact with the assistant.

```txt
instructions: | 
  # [Assistant Name]: [Brief Role Description]

        Instructions for use:  
        1. Provide a brief step-by-step guide for how the assistant works.  
        2. Include key points the user should know before they interact with the assistant.  
        3. Mention any important disclaimers, if applicable.

        **Note: [Add a disclaimer or key note about what the assistant can and cannot do].**
```

### Use the Web Interface
After the script runs, Gradio provides a local URL (typically `http://127.0.0.1:XXXX`) that you can open in your web browser to interact with the assistant. If you configured the application to be accessible publicly, Gradio also provides a public URL.

#### Test the Application
When you test the AI Insight Agent with RAG application, you can test both the interaction with the agent and the product selection capabilities.

1. Open a web browers and go to the Gradio-provided URL.  
  _For example, `http://127.0.0.1:XXXX`._
2. Test text interaction with the application.  
  - Type your question in the text box and press **Enter**.
  _The assistant responds to your question in text form._
3. To add products to the cart:
  - Select the products displayed in the interface and specify the quantity.
  - Click the Add to Cart button to update your cart.


For further testing of the AI Insight Agent with RAG appplication, you can engage with the chatbot assistant by asking it questions, or giving it commands that align with the assistant's capabilities. This hands-on experience can help you to understand the assistant's interactive quality and performance.

Enjoy exploring the capabilities of your AI Insight Agent with RAG appplication!

# Additional Resources
- Learn more about [OpenVINO](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/openvino-toolkit/overview.html)
- Explore [OpenVINO’s documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/home.html)

<p align="right"><a href="#top">Back to top ⬆️</a></p>
