demos/healthcare_assistant_demo/README.md, before:

# Healthcare Assistant with OpenVINO™

The demo works as a virtual healthcare assistant, whose task is to greet the patient and summarize the patient's condition based on the conversation and uploaded examination report. 

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28e66746-1f6c-4dfc-b345-ae9f0e003e76)

Here are the steps involved in this demo:

Step 0: Install Python and prerequisites

Step 1: Set up the environment

Step 2: Run the Application

Now, let's dive into the steps starting with installing Python.

## Step 0

This project requires Python 3.8 or higher and a few libraries. If you don't have Python installed on your machine, go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, making sure to check the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

Install libraries and tools:

```shell
sudo apt install git git-lfs gcc python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you will probably need to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe) also._

## Step 1

1. Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run the following command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

The above will clone the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. It will also download a sample video. Then, navigate into the directory using the following command:

```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/demos/healthcare_assistant_demo
```

2. Create a virtual environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to create the environment. Then, run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This will create a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

3. Activate the environment

Activate the virtual environment using the following command:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating system such as Linux or macOS
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, use `venv\Scripts\activate` command instead._

This will activate the virtual environment and change your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working within that environment.

4. Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 2

To run the application, use the following command. The application will start downloading Llama 3, and Distil-Whisper by default. 
To use LLama3, you must provide your [HuggingFace access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens) as a parameter. 
It will take up to an hour (depending on your internet speed) for the first time running this application due to the large downloads and conversion of the models. 
Once the models are cached, the subsequent executions will be much faster.

```shell
python main.py --hf_token [replace-with-your-token]
```

You can also change chat and asr model:

```shell
python main.py --asr_model distil-whisper/distil-large-v2 --chat_model OpenVINO/Phi-3-medium-4k-instruct-int4-ov
```

Running with `--public` will allow you to access from any computer:

```shell
python main.py --public
```

Commit message:

Extracted chatbot config outside the app

demos/healthcare_assistant_demo/README.md, after:

# Virtual AI Assistant with OpenVINO™

The demo works as a virtual AI assistant. The default personality is a healthcare assistant, whose task is to greet the patient and summarize the patient's condition based on the conversation and uploaded examination report.

The personality and behaviour can be easily changed with the config file (see Step 2).

![](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3ede3e5-d6af-46c7-8e00-250fc2137ed3)

Here are the steps involved in this demo:

Step 0: Install Python and prerequisites

Step 1: Set up the environment

Step 2: Run the Application

Now, let's dive into the steps starting with installing Python.

## Step 0

This project requires Python 3.8 or higher and a few libraries. If you don't have Python installed on your machine, go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and download the latest version for your operating system. Follow the prompts to install Python, making sure to check the option to add Python to your PATH environment variable.

Install libraries and tools:

```shell
sudo apt install git git-lfs gcc python3-venv python3-dev
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, you will probably need to install [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe) also._

## Step 1

1. Clone the Repository

To clone the repository, run the following command:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_build_deploy.git
```

The above will clone the repository into a directory named "openvino_build_deploy" in the current directory. It will also download a sample video. Then, navigate into the directory using the following command:

```shell
cd openvino_build_deploy/demos/healthcare_assistant_demo
```

2. Create a virtual environment

To create a virtual environment, open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to create the environment. Then, run the following command:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv
```
This will create a new virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory.

3. Activate the environment

Activate the virtual environment using the following command:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate   # For Unix-based operating system such as Linux or macOS
```

_NOTE: If you are using Windows, use `venv\Scripts\activate` command instead._

This will activate the virtual environment and change your shell's prompt to indicate that you are now working within that environment.

4. Install the Packages

To install the required packages, run the following commands:

```shell
python -m pip install --upgrade pip 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Step 2

To run the application, use the following command. The application will start downloading Llama 3, and Distil-Whisper by default. 
To use LLama3, you must provide your [HuggingFace access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens) as a parameter. 
It will take up to an hour (depending on your internet speed) for the first time running this application due to the large downloads and conversion of the models. 
Once the models are cached, the subsequent executions will be much faster.

```shell
python main.py --hf_token [replace-with-your-token]
```

Change the personality and behaviour by providing a new YAML config file:

```shell
python main.py --personality bartender_personality.yaml
```

You can also change chat, asr or embedding model:

```shell
python main.py --asr_model distil-whisper/distil-large-v2 --chat_model OpenVINO/Phi-3-medium-4k-instruct-int4-ov --embedding_model BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5
```

Running with `--public` will allow you to access from any computer:

```shell
python main.py --public
```
